The Caliban is a relative newcomer in Interplanetary-Northstar’s line of single-client, chassis, already garnering a reputation among Trunk Security for its efficacy inside of the envelope for which it was designed; unlike many of IPS-N’s modern chassis, the Caliban has no civilian analog or antecedent; it was designed from the ground up to be a military machine.
The Caliban is IPS-N’s solution to the Yemanova Problem, or, the Impact-Override Problem. Capital ships, the problem notes, are incredibly expensive and time consuming for corpros and diasporan states to produce and maintain, and anti-ship weaponry has far outstripped capital defenses. In a conventional capital duel, a successful kill means the death of thousands of personnel and the loss of millions of units of manna; this leads many commanders to be gun-shy, relying on subline and fighter-class vessels to accomplish battle objectives rather than risk their big ships — a strategy that proves just as costly on average; instead of one or a handful of large ships being destroyed and signifying the end of a battle, engagements grind on for weeks as squadrons of smaller ships engage inside the unpredictability gap, inching towards victory.
IPS-N was the first to crack the Yemanova Problem. Their designers identified the need for a rapidly deployable, sub-signature, directed weapon or weapon system; well armed and armored, small enough to enter a ship and efficiently neutralize personnel in order to achieve victory. IPS-N created the Caliban to solve this mission need.
The mechanized chassis, cultural critics argue, venerates a particular humanity’s form, and is an unconscious nod towards the anthrochauvinist roots of the machine among leading chassis designers and fabricators. The Caliban is not that. It was never intended to be an image of man writ large, striding across the battlefield heroically to affect a greater purpose.
The Caliban has no roots, as many IPS-N chassis do, in the early efforts of freighter crews and asteroid miners to defend themselves. It was not born from ingenuity - there is no legacy of resilience, heroism, and the frontier spirit to paper over the purpose of its birth. It has no civilian applications in aid, disaster relief, construction, or farming.
It does not build, defend, or inspire. It was designed to solve a numbers problem on a ledger. It was only made small so it could to fit through most ship doors and bulkheads with minimal problems, crawl up the spinal corridors of ships, and speed up it’s average job completion rate by five minutes.
It is a tool designed to kill human beings very, very quickly.